[WIP] Pipelines as Code documentation for Pipelines 1.9 (#53813)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-running-pipeline-run-using-pipelines-as-code.adoc

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// *cicd/pipelines/using-pipelines-as-code.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="running-pipeline-run-using-pipelines-as-code_{context}"]
= Running a pipeline run using {pac} 

[role="_abstract"]

> With default configuration, {pac} runs any pipeline in the `.tekton/` directory of the default branch of repository, when specified events such as pull request or push occurs on the repository. For example, if a pipeline run on the default branch has the annotation `pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-event: "[pull_request]"`, it will run whenever a pull request event occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With default configuration, {pac} runs any pipeline run in the `.tekton/` directory of the default branch of repository, when specified events such as pull request or push occurs on the repository. For example, if a pipeline run on the default branch has the annotation `pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-event: "[pull_request]"`, it will run whenever a pull request event occurs.
```

In the event of a pull request or a merge request, {pac} also runs pipelines from branches other than the default branch, if the following conditions are met by the author of the pull request:

* The author is the owner of the repository.
* The author is a collaborator on the repository.
* The author is a public member on the organization of the repository.

> * The pull request author is inside an `OWNER` file located in the repository root on the `main` branch (as defined in the GitHub configuration for the repository), and added to either `approvers` or `reviewers` sections. For example, if the author `chmouel` is listed in the `approvers` section, then a pull request raised by `chmouel` starts the pipeline run.

Reviewer 2: Comment addressed!
Updated `john` in lieu of `chmouel`.

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 3: We can make this code part of the previous bullet.

Reviewer 4: you can change chmouel to something more generic as name like john or whatever :)

Reviewer 3: I was also thinking to change the name. Please make the approver's name generic.

Reviewer 2: Updated the name to `john`
Thanks!

----
...
  approvers:
    - approved
...
----

If the pull request author does not meet the requirements, another user who meets the requirements can comment `/ok-to-test` on the pull request, and start the pipeline run.

[discrete]
.Pipeline run execution

> A pipeline always runs in the namespace of the `Repository` CRD associated with the repository that generated the event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A pipeline run always runs in the namespace of the `Repository` CRD associated with the repository that generated the event.
```

You can observe the execution of your pipeline runs using the `tkn pac` CLI tool.

* To follow the execution of the last pipeline run, use the following example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ tkn pac logs -n <my-pipeline-ci> -L <1>
----
<1> `my-pipeline-ci` is the namespace for the `Repository` CRD.

* To follow the execution of any pipeline run interactively, use the following example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ tkn pac logs -n <my-pipeline-ci> <1>
----
<1> `my-pipeline-ci` is the namespace for the `Repository` CRD.

> If you need to show another pipelinerun than the last one you can use the tkn pac logs command and it will ask you to select a PipelineRun attached to the repository :

Reviewer 2: Comment addressed!

> If you have configured {pac} with a GitHb App, {pac} posts a URL in the *Checks* tab for GitHub Apps. You can click on the URL and follow the pipeline execution.

Reviewer 2: Comment addressed!

[discrete]
.Restarting a pipeline run

> You can restart a pipeline run without events such as sending a new commit to your branch, or raising a pull request. On a GitHub App,go to the *Checks* tab and click *Re-run*.

Reviewer 2: Comment addressed!

> If you are targeting a pull or merge request, you can use GitOps comments inside your pull request to restart all or specific pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are targeting a pull or merge request, you can use GitOps comments inside your pull request to restart all or specific pipeline runs.
```

> If you are targeting a pull or merge request, you can use GitOps comments inside your pull request to restart all or specific pipeline runs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you target a pull or merge request, you can use the following GitOps comments inside your pull request to restart all or specific pipeline runs:
```

Reviewer 2: Comment addressed!
